# Princes of Elemental Evil

For the most part, the elements that make up the world are indifferent to good or evil as mortals understand the concepts. Creatures such as fire elementals can be dangerous and destructive, but they have no particular aim other than to exist. However, some of the primordial powers of the elemental plane are tainted with true evil. These are the princes of Elemental Evil, old and jealous elemental beings that despise the world of living things. Each of the princes is a unique elemental lord of terrible power, and each commands the loyalty of many lesser elementals that have likewise been corrupted by their evil---as well as mortal worshipers who likewise seek to scour the world with the wrath of the elements.

Each prince of Elemental Evil is a unique being unlike any other elemental, or any of the other princes. Some embody the combination of elements---for example, Bwimb, the Lord of Ooze, or Cryonax, the Prince of Evil Cold. However, the four princes most strongly associated with the cult of Elemental Evil are malicious embodiments of the four base elements. They are:

* Imix, Prince of Evil Fire (the All-Consuming Fire, the Eternal Flame)
* Ogremoch, Prince of Evil Earth (Tyrant of Black Earth, the Mountain of Doom)
* Olhydra, Princess of Evil Water (the Crushing Wave, Well of Endless Anguish)
* Yan-C-Bin, Prince of Evil Air (the Shadow of the Four Winds, the Howling Hatred)

***Forces of Destruction.*** The princes aren't concerned with spreading wickedness among mortals or making any kind of order or philosophy dominant in the world. Their evil is blind, destructive, and hungry. They hate the way the world is made and the natural laws that constrain their favored elements. They resent the gods who shaped the world, and the mortals for whom the world was shaped, especially mortals who seek to impose their will on the elements. The princes unleash natural catastrophes at every opportunity, and gladly crush or devour mortals to assert their mastery over the world.

***Uncooperative.*** While the princes of Elemental Evil share a love of destruction and hatred of mortals, they don't cooperate with each other. Each is concerned only with advancing his or her own favored element. At best they are indifferent to each other, but each prince hates the prince representing the element opposite to its own (fire and water, or air and earth), and often goes to great lengths to block its enemy's efforts or destroy its enemy's followers.

***The Elder Elemental Eye.*** While the princes of Elemental Evil act independently of each other, there is a mysterious force that seems to link them together: the Elder Elemental Eye. Some sages believe that the Eye is a dark, primordial god that corrupted the elements in the beginning of the world, giving rise to each of the princes. Others hold that the Elder Elemental Eye is a binding force---a common fate, or perhaps a curse---that ties the princes together. Whenever one aspect of Elemental Evil takes root in the world, the other three soon follow, and the four cults are often found together despite their mutual antipathy.

***Elemental Nodes.*** The princes of Elemental Evil seek to spread their power by sowing the seeds of elemental nodes throughout the world. Elemental nodes are places in the Material Plane that are suffused with energy from the Elemental Planes. For example, a subterranean magma chamber or a swamp with flaming gas seeps might be an elemental node of fire. Elemental nodes are like beachheads for the elemental princes, places from which they can reshape part of the world to their own tastes and wreak destruction on whatever is nearby. When an elemental prince succeeds in establishing a node, it channels its power---and its elemental minions---to that spot, spreading Elemental Evil like a cancer in the firmament of the world.

***Worshiped by Cults.*** The princes of Elemental Evil are indifferent to mortal followers. They aren't gods and don't crave worship, but evil mortals find that Elemental Evil is a ready source of magical power and lends itself to destructive uses. Cultists often gather near elemental nodes and attempt perilous rituals to tap into the power of Elemental Evil or attract the attention of one of the princes. These fell beings don't hear prayers or grant spells, but they can serve as sources of power to those who learn to draw on their might. More often than not, the princes of Elemental Evil wind up destroying the mortals who called on them. Until they do, clever (or crazed) cultists can do a great deal of harm with the elemental power they borrow.
